{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2865
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28260\viewh13700\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 ### **I. Python Theory & Fundamentals**\
\
These questions test the candidate's understanding of core Python concepts.\
\
**1. Basic Concepts & Data Types**.  1 \
*   What are the key features of Python? (e.g., Interpreted, Dynamic Typing, Object-Oriented) \
*   Differentiate between a list and a tuple. When would you use one over the other? \
*   What is a Python dictionary? How is it implemented? (Hint: Hash Tables)  dict example \
*   Explain the difference between `deepcopy` and `shallow copy`. Toys \
\
*   What are the common built-in data types in Python? \
\
**2. Functions & Scope**  2 \
*   What is the difference between `*args` and `**kwargs`? Give an example. \
*   What is a lambda function? Provide a use case.  \
*   Explain the concept of `pass`, `continue`, and `break` statements. \
*   What is the purpose of the `if __name__ == "__main__":` statement? \
*   What is a docstring? Why is it important? \
\
**3. Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)** 3 \
\
*   Explain the four pillars of OOP: Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance, and Polymorphism.\
*   What is the difference between a class and an instance? \
*   What is `self` in a Python class? \
*   What is method overriding and method overloading? (Note: Python doesn't support traditional overloading, so their answer is telling).\
*   What is a constructor in Python? (`__init__` method)  \
	\
**4. Advanced Concepts** 4\
*   What are Python decorators? Can you explain how they work?\
*   What are generators in Python? How are they different from normal functions that return a list? (`yield` vs `return`)\
*   What are iterators?\
*   What is the difference between a module and a package?\
*   How is memory managed in Python? (Garbage Collection, Reference Counting)\
\
**5. Exception Handling** 5\
*   What is the purpose of a `try...except` block?\
*   Explain the `else` and `finally` clauses in exception handling.\
\
---\
\
### **II. Coding Problems (Practical Application)**\
\
These problems test the candidate's ability to translate logic into code. Ask them to write code on a whiteboard, in a shared editor (like CoderPad or HackerRank), or simply explain their approach.\
\
**Easy Level (To build confidence and check basic syntax)** 6\
1.  **FizzBuzz:** Write a program that prints numbers from 1 to 100. But for multiples of three, print "Fizz" instead of the number, and for multiples of five, print "Buzz". For numbers which are multiples of both three and five, print "FizzBuzz". \
2.  **Reverse a String:** Write a function to reverse a string (e.g., "hello" -> "olleh"). Don't use the built-in `reverse()` function. \
3.  **Find Max/Min:** Write a function to find the largest and smallest number in a list without using the built-in `max()` or `min()` functions.\
4.  **Factorial:** Write a function to calculate the factorial of a number (both iteratively and recursively). \
5.  **Check Palindrome:** Write a function to check if a given string is a palindrome (e.g., "radar"). \
\
**Medium Level (To test problem-solving and knowledge of data structures)** 7\
6.  **Fibonacci Sequence:** Write a function to generate the first `n` numbers in the Fibonacci sequence.\
7.  **Count Character Frequency:** Write a function that takes a string and returns a dictionary with each character as a key and its frequency as the value.\
8.  **List Comprehensions:** You have a list of numbers: `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]`. Create a new list containing only the even numbers squared, using a list comprehension. (Result: `[4, 16, 36, 64, 100]`) \
9.  **Find Missing Number:** Given a list containing `n` distinct numbers taken from `0, 1, 2, ..., n`, find the one that is missing from the list.\
10. **Two Sum:** Given an array of integers `nums` and an integer `target`, return the indices of the two numbers such that they add up to `target`. (A classic problem to test their approach to optimization).\
\
**Hard Level (For stronger candidates, tests advanced concepts)** 8 AVOID \
11. **Flatten a List:** Write a function to flatten a nested list. Example: Input: `[1, [2, 3], [4, [5, 6]]]`, Output: `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]`. (Tests recursion/generators).\
12. **Implement a Decorator:** Write a simple decorator function `timer` that measures the time taken by any function to execute and prints the duration.\
13. **Prime Numbers:** Write a function to generate a list of prime numbers up to a number `n` using the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm.\
14. **Most Frequent Word:** Given a paragraph of text, write a function to return the most frequently occurring word. (Tests string manipulation, dictionaries, and edge cases like punctuation).\
\
---\
\
### **III. Follow-up & Discussion Questions**\
\
After the coding problem, always discuss their solution. 9\
*   **"What is the time and space complexity of your solution?"** (Big-O notation)\
*   **"Can you think of a way to optimize this further?"**\
*   **"How would you handle edge cases? (e.g., empty input, large input, wrong data type)"**\
*   **"How would you test this function?"**\
\
\
\
Of course! Here is a curated list of coding questions, perfect for a fresher Python developer interview. They are sorted by category and difficulty.\
\
### **String Manipulation** 10\
\
1.  **Palindrome Check**  \
    *   **Problem:** Write a function to check if a given string is a palindrome (reads the same forwards and backwards). Ignore case and non-alphanumeric characters.\
    *   **Example:** `"A man, a plan, a canal: Panama"` should return `True`.\
    *   **Tests:** Empty string, single character, strings with symbols.\
\
2.  **Reverse a String** \
    *   **Problem:** Write a function to reverse a string. Don't use the built-in `reversed()` or `[::-1]`.\
    *   **Example:** `"hello"` -> `"olleh"`\
    *   **Follow-up:** Now do it using `[::-1]` and explain how slicing works.\
\
3.  **Anagram Check** \
    *   **Problem:** Write a function to check if two strings are anagrams of each other (contain the same characters in the same frequency).\
    *   **Example:** `"listen"` and `"silent"` are anagrams.\
    *   **Tests:** Strings of different lengths, same strings.\
\
4.  **Find the First Non-Repeating Character**\
    *   **Problem:** Given a string, find the first character that occurs only once.\
    *   **Example:** In `"swiss"`, the first non-repeating character is `'w'` (s repeats, i repeats, w is first and unique).\
    *   **Challenge:** Can you do it in a single pass?\
\
5.  **Longest Word in a String**\
    *   **Problem:** Write a function that takes a string and returns the longest word in it. If there are multiple, return the first one.\
    *   **Example:** `"I love Python programming"` -> `"programming"`\
    *   **Tests:** Handle punctuation, e.g., `"Hello, world!"` -> `"Hello"`.\
\
---\
\
### **Number & Mathematical Operations** 11\
\
6.  **Fibonacci Sequence** \
    *   **Problem:** Write a function to generate the first `n` numbers in the Fibonacci sequence.\
    *   **Example:** `n = 6` -> `[0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5]`\
    *   **Follow-up:** Do it both iteratively and recursively. Discuss the time complexity of each.\
\
7.  **Factorial of a Number** \
    *   **Problem:** Write a function to calculate the factorial of a non-negative integer `n`.\
    *   **Example:** `5! = 5 * 4 * 3 * 2 * 1 = 120`\
    *   **Follow-up:** Iterative vs. Recursive approach.\
\
8.  **Check Prime Number**\
    *   **Problem:** Write a function to check if a number is prime.\
    *   **Follow-up:** How can you optimize it? (Hint: You only need to check divisors up to the square root of the number).\
\
9.  **Armstrong Number** 
\f1  
\f0 \
    *   **Problem:** Check if a number is an Armstrong number (aka narcissistic number). This is a number that is equal to the sum of its own digits each raised to the power of the number of digits.\
    *   **Example:** `153` is Armstrong because `1^3 + 5^3 + 3^3 = 153`.\
\
10. **Sum of Digits** 
\f1  
\f0 need
\f1  
\f0 to
\f1  
\f0 visit
\f1  
\f0 once
\f1  
\f0 again
\f1  
\f0 \
    *   **Problem:** Write a function to calculate the sum of the digits of a number.\
    *   **Example:** `1234` -> `1 + 2 + 3 + 4 = 10`\
    *   **Challenge:** Do it without converting the number to a string.\
\
---\
\
### **List Manipulation & Algorithms** 12\
 \
11. **FizzBuzz** \
    *   **The Classic:** Print numbers from 1 to n. For multiples of 3, print "Fizz". For multiples of 5, print "Buzz". For multiples of both, print "FizzBuzz".\
    *   **Tests:** This tests basic looping and conditionals.\
\
12. **Find Max/Min in a List**\
    *   **Problem:** Write a function to find the largest and smallest number in a list without using the built-in `max()` or `min()` functions.\
\
13. **Remove Duplicates from a List**\
    *   **Problem:** Write a function that takes a list and returns a new list with duplicates removed, preserving the original order. \
    *   **Example:** `[1, 2, 2, 3, 4, 4, 5]` -> `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`  \
    *   **Follow-up:** Can you do it without using a `set`? Or without using a new list?\
\
14. **Find the Missing Number**\
    *   **Problem:** You are given a list of `n-1` distinct numbers from `1` to `n`. Find the missing number.\
    *   **Example:** Input: `[1, 2, 4, 5, 6]` (n=6), Output: `3`.\
    *   **Challenge:** Find a solution that uses a constant amount of extra space.\
\
15. **Two Sum**\
    *   **Problem:** Given an array of integers `nums` and an integer `target`, return the indices of the two numbers that add up to the `target`.\
    *   **Example:** `nums = [2, 7, 11, 15]`, `target = 9` -> `[0, 1]` (because nums[0] + nums[1] = 2 + 7 = 9).\
    *   **Follow-up:** Can you find a solution more efficient than the naive O(n\'b2) approach? (Hint: Use a dictionary for O(n) time).\
\
---\
\
### **Data Structures & Advanced Concepts** 13\
\
16. **Implement a Stack using a List**\
    *   **Problem:** Implement a `Stack` class with `push`, `pop`, and `peek` methods.\
\
17. **Count Character Frequency**\
    *   **Problem:** Write a function that takes a string and returns a dictionary where keys are characters and values are their frequency in the string. \
    *   **Example:** `"hello"` -> `\{'h':1, 'e':1, 'l':2, 'o':1\}`\
\
18. **Flatten a Nested List**\
    *   **Problem:** Write a function to flatten an arbitrarily nested list of integers.\
    *   **Example:** Input: `[1, [2, 3], [4, [5, 6]]]`, Output: `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]`.\
    *   **Follow-up:** This is a great problem to test recursion.\
\
19. **List Comprehension Challenge**\
    *   **Problem:** Given a list of numbers `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]`, use a list comprehension to create a new list containing only the even numbers squared.\
    *   **Target Output:** `[4, 16, 36, 64, 100]`    \
\
20. **Simple Decorator**\
    *   **Problem:** Write a decorator named `timer` that prints the time taken by a function to execute.\
    *   **Tests their understanding of:** Functions as objects, `*args` and `**kwargs`.\
\
### **How to Use These Questions in an Interview:** 14\
\
*   **Start Easy:** Begin with something like **FizzBuzz** or **Palindrome Check** to calm the candidate's nerves.  
\f1  
\f0 \
*   **Progress to Medium:** Move to problems like **Two Sum** or **Find the Missing Number** to see their problem-solving and optimization skills.\
\
*   **End with a Challenge:** For a strong candidate, finish with **Flatten a Nested List** or the **Decorator** problem to see if they grasp more advanced concepts.\
*   **Always Discuss:** After they write the code, ask about time/space complexity (Big-O) and how they might test their function.\
\
\
\
\
}